# pharma-analysis

This assignment uses a fictional set of data to visualize and analyze the effectiveness of cancer drugs.

The first plot, entitled ‘Tumour Response to Treatment’, shows that two treatment options (Ramicane and Capomulin) caused a reduction in the volume of tumours.  On the other hand, mice that were administered all other drugs or placebos had their tumours continue to grow.  The final bar graph shows that these subjects’ tumours grew between approximately 43 and 57%, while Ramicane and Capomulin showed reductions between 19 and 22% respectively.  Since the standard errors on the first plot overlap, we cannot conclude that Capomulin is a better treatment option for tumour reduction though it appears to give create slightly greater reductions in tumour size in this study.  

The second plot, entitled ‘Metastatic Spread During Treatment’, shows that Ramicane and Capomulin are the most successful at reducing metastatic spread, both averaging less than 1.5 metastatic sites after 45 days.  This time Ramicane has slightly better results, but since we again see some overlap in the standard errors, we cannot conclude it is the best option for limiting metastatic spread based on this study.  Stelasyn and Infubinol were the third and fourth best options, both limiting metastatic spread to under 2.5 sites on average over the course of the study.  Unsurprisingly, the placebo group experienced the most metastatic spread throughout most of the study.  But a few drugs, such as Zonerifol and Ketapril, had significant overlap with the placebo group, suggesting that their effectiveness in this respect is at least very limited if not non-existent. 
  
The third plot, entitled ‘Survival During Treatment’, shows that the mice most likely to survive were those given Capomulin or Ramicane.  Both of those groups had a survival rates of 80% or higher.  This is unsurprising considering the effectiveness these drugs had in reducing the spread and growth of skin cancer.  Interestingly, the Propriva, Infubinol and Stelasyn all had worse survival rates than the placebo group.  Propiva had the worst survival rate by a fair margin at under 30%.  The plot shows a significant number of deaths in this group between days 10 and 15. 
